docs/index.rst, before:



.. meta::
  :antsibull-docs: 2.11.0


.. _plugins_in_kentik.kentik_config:

Kentik.Kentik_Config
====================

Collection version 1.0.0

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 1

Description
-----------

Ansible Modules for Kentik

**Author:**

* Ethan Angele (@kentikethan)

**Supported ansible-core versions:**

* 2.14.0 or newer

.. ansible-links::

  - title: "Issue Tracker"
    url: "https://github.com/kentik/kentik_ansible_collection/issues"
    external: true
  - title: "Repository (Sources)"
    url: "https://github.com/kentik/kentik_ansible_collection"
    external: true




.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

Plugin Index
------------

These are the plugins in the kentik.kentik_config collection:


Modules
~~~~~~~

* :ansplugin:`kentik_device module <kentik.kentik_config.kentik_device#module>` -- This is a module that will perform idempotent operations on kentik device management
* :ansplugin:`kentik_label module <kentik.kentik_config.kentik_label#module>` -- This is a module that will perform idempotent operations on kentik label management.
* :ansplugin:`kentik_site module <kentik.kentik_config.kentik_site#module>` -- This is a module that will perform idempotent operations on kentik site management.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :hidden:

    kentik_device_module
    kentik_label_module
    kentik_site_module



.. seealso::

    List of :ref:`collections <list_of_collections>` with docs hosted here.

Commit message:

Updating the documentation and adding the netbox sync playbook and module

docs/index.rst, after:

.. meta::
  :antsibull-docs: 2.16.3


.. _plugins_in_kentik.kentik_config:

Kentik.Kentik_Config
====================

Collection version 1.2.0

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 1

Description
-----------

Ansible Modules for Kentik

**Author:**

* Ethan Angele (@kentikethan)

**Supported ansible-core versions:**

* 2.14.0 or newer

.. ansible-links::

  - title: "Issue Tracker"
    url: "https://github.com/kentik/kentik_ansible_collection/issues"
    external: true
  - title: "Repository (Sources)"
    url: "https://github.com/kentik/kentik_ansible_collection"
    external: true
  - title: "Report an issue"
    url: "https://github.com/kentik/kentik_ansible_collection/issues/new/choose"
    external: true




.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

Plugin Index
------------

These are the plugins in the kentik.kentik_config collection:


Modules
~~~~~~~

* :ansplugin:`kentik_device module <kentik.kentik_config.kentik_device#module>` -- This is a module that will perform idempotent operations on kentik device management
* :ansplugin:`kentik_label module <kentik.kentik_config.kentik_label#module>` -- This is a module that will perform idempotent operations on kentik label management.
* :ansplugin:`kentik_netbox_prefixes module <kentik.kentik_config.kentik_netbox_prefixes#module>` -- This is a module that will perform idempotent operations to synchronize netbox prefixes.
* :ansplugin:`kentik_site module <kentik.kentik_config.kentik_site#module>` -- This is a module that will perform idempotent operations on kentik site management.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :hidden:

    kentik_device_module
    kentik_label_module
    kentik_netbox_prefixes_module
    kentik_site_module
